so I try to record these videos in a way
that'll still be meaningful if you see
them five years from now and don't know
the context or what's going on boy the
lighting is really terrible see if I
move closer my face turns blue because
the light coming off of my computer
monitor is slightly blue if I move back
I look a little bit more like a human
being but boy my lighting is really
terrible oh that's better yeah right
look there was a video just put up by
Charles vegan cheetah and he obviously
was taking a little bit by surprise by
someone asking him look have you ever
been to a dairy farm do you know about
this stuff first and yourself this
question and this example is meaningful
to me in a bunch of different ways it's
come up in my life
under a bunch of different headings this
is the big empirical question of our
time and especially if you deal with
left-wing people have you ever been to a
garment factory have you ever been to a
shoe factory in a third-world country
have you ever been to a rice farm to a
dairy farm to whatever the it's a
meaningful question whatever the case
may be
and my whole life I've had to deal with
basically left-wing people it's never
been afraid per se
left-wing people making over the top
revolutionary claims basically cynical
political claims based on
misrepresenting the terrible oppression
that supposedly goes on in factories
farms or what-have-you and zeggen ism is
no exception
but veganism is not unique in this way
because I've dealt with it under so many
different headings so I mean I can
remember talking to a privileged vegan
that's her screen name she's another
youtuber here we had just one
conversation by Skype her and I and I
was saying to her you know like the
stuff you say on your channel it seems
to me that you you think there's no way
for a person to have a life of dignity
to have a good quality of life to earn
an honest living
on a farm you know why why do you think
that like have you been to a rice farm
have you been to a vegetable farm I've
been to a banana farm like have you
spent time with farmers have you
researched it have you seen it
those are worthwhile questions to ask
within the vegan bubble like when we're
talking about vegetable farming or mango
farming or fruit farming whatever you
want to say and there also I think
meaningful questions to ask of course
when we're talking about meat production
dairy production what have you to use
Charles's own idiom there's also this
problem of vegans living inside an
intellectual ghetto and from my
perspective that's true of the whole
left-wing in every part of the world
I've ever lived in it's very easy for
you to live inside a group of people who
never challenge your assumptions about
how clothing is made what goes on on a
farm and if step one of your political
perspective on the world is already
detached from empirical reality if you
aren't actually involved with strawberry
farms it becomes very easy for you to
convince yourself that you know better
than everyone who disagrees with you
your left-wing you only hang out with
left-wing people you have the belief
that everyone who works on a strawberry
farm is horrendously exploited in fact
the exploitation of human labor on
strawberry farms is so bad that vegans
should feel guilty for eating
strawberries in the same way that a
meat-eater should feel guilty for eating
pork as if the conditions of someone
employed and being paid minimum wage
let's say on a strawberry farm or just
as bad as or worse than a pig that is
born to live and die in a steel cage on
a concrete floor having its tail cut off
having its teeth pulled out in the case
of male pigs being castrated through an
incredibly painful process sometimes
these pigs only live for three months
sometimes it's six months depends on the
type of pig etc
really there's no point of comparison
really it's completely surreal to have
this perspective and yet right now it is
common amongst left-wing vegans they
live in an intellectual ghetto where
these assumptions just get affirmed in a
affirmed and reaffirmed by their
selected circle of friends and you know
the question hasn't come up well you
know have you been to a pig farm this is
one thing sure well have you ever worked
for a day on a strawberry farm have you
ever talked to someone or be friends
with someone who maybe worked on a
strawberry farm during the harvest
season for a few years and then went
back to school and got another job
people who work on farms are regular
people they don't necessarily do it as a
career
it might lead to it just for a few years
or what have you includes migrant
workers you can talk to migrant workers
who came from Mexico worked on a
strawberry farm in America for just one
year or saved up some money went back
home got another job whatever it was
it's very often part of a form of upward
social mobility you know the picture is
more nuanced than the propaganda that
left when people want to manufacture out
of it and it doesn't even mean they have
bad motives in creating this propaganda
but yes step one is that the propaganda
becomes detached from reality from any
kind of empirical experience and I
should note the empirical experience can
be living on the farm yourself going to
the factor yourself but it can also be
research research-based I did empirical
research I was living in Cambodia that
consisted of going to factories and
interviewing the factory workers to
figure out how exploited they are very
important form of research as mentioned
I was doing more the analysis side of it
including mathematical analysis
quantitative methods on that project I
was not physically they are interviewing
people face to face well actually I did
do other projects where I went where I
was standing there well the interviews
took place and I actually observed the
conditions and so on included visiting
some very memorable chicken farms in
Cambodia boy
yeah and pig farms boy you don't know
you don't know ha ha oh God you don't
know a chicken farms hell you've been my
chicken farm in Cambodia
let me tell you oh the adaptation of
factory farming methods to third-world
tropical countries oh it's ugly but I've
been there and I've seen that anyway my
point here was you can remain in touch
with the empirical reality through
research methods also not just through
going there yourself in person but
through reading research uh some of the
questions we would ask the factory
employees
these are garment factories where they
make t-shirts like the one I'm wearing
they make clothing make whatever they're
stitching pieces of cloth together you
know it included how happy or unhappy
are you with the job do you feel you're
making enough money or not enough money
do you think you're working too many
hours etc you know how exploited are you
in effect how long have you had this job
what job do you plan to go on next after
you finish this job and with that
project the vast majority of the the
women because they they were I think
they were all women working if I don't
think any of them were men the vast
majority of the women they were planning
to keep the job for only a short time
because they were earning so much money
that they were saving up money to open
their own shop start their own business
or otherwise move on so you know the
image of the assumption that all factory
work in a third world country all
sweatshop labor is terrible exploitation
well I understand why you formed that
opinion
I've understand the political purpose
it's put to but it's tragic and
self-defeating when little groups of
left-wing people little covens of
left-wing people formed their own
intellectual ghettos and just affirm
their assumptions about the world and
assume that anyone who challenges their
assumption is evil because now if you
question that if you position me and say
well you know I know something about
factory conditions and I've been to
factories and actually it's kind of a
nuanced and complex picture all of a
sudden your right wing your evil your
heart is not in the right place because
you don't
three with the propaganda line that's
already been affirmed by I don't know
10,000 conversations on Twitter or
something wherever these people get
their sense of what reality is supposed
to be I mean part of the current fad of
social justice warrior left-wing
slacktivism of speaking out on issues on
the Internet
seems to be you base your opinion on
reading maybe two paragraphs of
information on the Internet maybe seeing
some photographs of the most extreme
example of something imaginable and then
the idea is that the morally correct
thing to do is to make histrionic and
extreme complaints on the Internet
denouncing it and complaining about it
in a totally closed-minded way that a
course doesn't reflect any real-world
experience and that's why people who do
this but maybe everyone to some extent
that's why most people really do get sty
need or flummoxed or shocked once
someone asked them like well when did
you visit a dairy farm what kind of
dairy farms have you been to it's a
meaningful question to what extent is
your opinion guided by empirical
experience actually seeing things
actually having your hands on and to
what extent are you open now to having
your political opinions challenged by
empirical experience I remember this is
like an almost uniquely Jewish thing
there was a wave of anti-sweatshop
activism more than ten years ago there
was a particular scandal about some
particular factories in China and there
was this kind of incoherence apperently
internet driven response calling for an
end to all sweatshop labor an end to
kind of all these garment factories and
I remember there was I think it was one
of the Jewish museums in Washington DC
Jewish Museum for Human Rights something
like that one of the Jewish museums in
America they actually got a negative
reaction from their donors from the base
of supporters the
Human Rights Museum because they got
together and said look these are very
old early Jewish people but they said
look I can remember when these
sweatshops were here in the United
States whether as the 1920s the 1942
ever I can remember what it was like to
work in a garment factory stitching blue
jeans or stitching suits and ties or
making t-shirts like this one and this
political movement it's just
fundamentally factually wrong in trying
to depict this as absolute slavery as a
circumstance of total exploitation of
man by man you know you can lead a life
with dignity and you can earn a good
living and honest living doing this work
and I know because I did it back when I
was a teenager in the 1940s whoever it
was I say these were really elderly
Jewish people in that States who could
remember when the United States had a
booming garment industry and when it
wasn't the case that America was reliant
on importing their clothes from Asia now
when you're informed by empirical
experience it doesn't shut down the
political discourse it enriches it it
makes it meaningful it makes it salient
and it gives you the basis it gives you
the tools it equips you to to come up
with policy changes that are really
relevant to the world we live in
I would think something similar is true
about agriculture and factory farming
what this gets at I mean in contrast to
the sort of left-wing internet activist
habits of our time is that not everybody
is entitled to speak on everything
some people know what they're talking
about and some people don't I look in
some ways I've led a terrible life if
like I can make a separate video about
just how miserable my life as an adult
has been there has been very little
happiness in my adult life and a lot of
misery take my word for it but I did
have some extraordinarily diverse
experiences I know what it's like to
be in a garment factory in a shoe
factory in third-world countries in
Southeast Asia I got to go and visit
those places and see them I mentioned
with shoe factories in the tropics whoa
with this true of a lot of factors there
a lot of times they don't have walls you
know they have a roof but they're
they're open air with big fan so that
it's cooler inside so you don't even
need to be invited inside to see the
factory conditions um
and I spent time on farms and I did
research about agriculture and
manufacturing even when I was a kid I
visited farms when I was still in Canada
but I visited farms in in Asia my
perspective is informed by some pretty
diverse experience that some people
definitely don't have when they're
teenagers and a lot of people don't have
as older people either and that doesn't
mean that I'm right and you're wrong but
yeah I mean I'm making this video in
response to the fact that Charles he was
just he had a totally sincere inhuman
reaction he was thrown for a loop when
someone said to him someone you know
posed some facts that contradicted his
assumption and he was challenged by
someone asked him hey when have you ever
been to a dairy farm well you know if
you're gonna make political claims about
how dairy farms ought to change or ought
to be abolished that is a challenge you
should be ready to answer and the same
would be true if you're trying to reform
the way clothing is manufactured and
what have you uh I got some fan mail
awhile back asking someone was asking me
you keep saying in your videos that
you're not left-wing but you never
describe what you are after this video I
feel like there's even more demand from
his feet what my what my political
beliefs are the positive but hey if you
watch all the videos on this channel
from the first to the last maybe you add
up all the negative statements all the
things I don't believe in and you can
come to some conclusions to look out a
guy I really am